Hi, and welcome back.
I wanted to tell you in this video how to log to a file
and also a couple of things
about the structure of these loggers.
In order to log to a file, it's really straightforward.
All you have to do is in this basicConfig here,
add another argument called filename.
And this can be, for example, logs.txt, very simple.
You do this, you run your app, and then you see logs.txt
up here, and it contains your logs.
So when you're logging in your application,
definitely recommended to log to a separate file,
so that, main thing is so that your users won't be able
to see your logs, and also so you keep your logs
in order that you can then review them later on.
This is particularly important when we're developing
web applications and things like that that are running
for a long period of time, and you need the logs
in order to be able to track down problems.
We're gonna look at web application development
in a later section, so this is why I'm mentioning this now.
The next thing I wanted to say is, real quick,
how these loggers are structured.
Here we've got something called a test_logger.
But normally you would call this something like __name__.
That's just so each module has its own separate logger,
and you have a bit more, sort of, flexibility
with how the loggers operate.
However, it's also very popular for you to call your logger
something like, for example, let's say this app did
something like book handling or something.
You call this logger books, for example.
And then it's fairly popular that when you go
into a different part of your application,
you will get another logger and call it
like books.database, for example.
Let's say you are in the database file down here,
and you're in a new file called database.py
or something, and you wanna get a different logger
for logs related to a database.
When you do books.database, this is actually a child logger,
so you get another logger, which is a child logger of books.
Any configuration you've got on the books logger,
will be inherited by the database logger,
not with the books.database logger.
So it's normal to structure these loggers like that,
and sometimes you end up with some fairly long logger names.
That's totally fine.
But again, it's also very popular to call them as __name__,
and then they get called after the module that they're
currently operating in or, indeed,
the import path, as you know.
So either very popular, and I'll just mention quickly
that there is more on loggers than I've covered,
and there are things like handlers and things like that
that you can look into, but to be honest,
this is plenty for the applications that we'll be building,
and, indeed, for more advanced applications and, indeed,
for professional applications as well.
You've got some more advanced functionality,
but I've not used it that often.
One more thing that I'll just say right now as well,
if you want to form the time
in a particular way, you can do that.
You can do datefmt= and in here, you can enter
formats like you would with the string format time method,
strftime, so you can do dash D, dash M, dash Y,
%H, %M, %S, for example.
And then this would be formatted slightly differently.
If we look at the logs now, you can see that these old
ones have the complete date, including the milliseconds
there, and these ones are a bit more reasonable.
Also notice that when you run your app multiple times,
the logs do not get lost, and so the logs just
get appended to, and that's a pretty nice feature too,
just in case your app crashes or something,
and then it restarts automatically like we will do
in the future, your logs are not gonna get lost
because of that.
However, of course, the file can grow pretty large,
so that's something you have to take into consideration.
All right, that's it for this video.
Now you can use logging in your apps.
And honestly, you don't need anything else.
As you learn more Python, and as you work with other people,
you may encounter situations where you use some
other feature of the logging module.
But honestly, I've not had that situation yet.
So that's it for this video,
and I'll see you on the next one.